.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

*Replace this paragraph with a description of what this PR is changing or adding, and why. Consider including before/after screenshots.*

*List which issues are fixed by this PR. You must list at least one issue.*

## Pre-launch Checklist

- [ ] I read the [Contributor Guide] and followed the process outlined there for submitting PRs.
- [ ] I read the [Tree Hygiene] page, which explains my responsibilities.
- [ ] I read and followed the [relevant style guides] and ran the auto-formatter. (Unlike the flutter/flutter repo, the flutter/packages repo does use `dart format`.)
- [ ] I signed the [CLA].
- [ ] The title of the PR starts with the name of the package surrounded by square brackets, e.g. `[shared_preferences]`
- [ ] I [linked to at least one issue that this PR fixes] in the description above.
- [ ] I updated `pubspec.yaml` with an appropriate new version according to the [pub versioning philosophy], or this PR is [exempt from version changes].
- [ ] I updated `CHANGELOG.md` to add a description of the change, [following repository CHANGELOG style], or this PR is [exempt from CHANGELOG changes].
- [ ] I updated/added relevant documentation (doc comments with `///`).
- [ ] I added new tests to check the change I am making, or this PR is [test-exempt].
- [ ] All existing and new tests are passing.

If you need help, consider asking for advice on the #hackers-new channel on [Discord].

<!-- Links -->
[Contributor Guide]: https://github.com/flutter/packages/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
[Tree Hygiene]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Tree-hygiene.md
[relevant style guides]: https://github.com/flutter/packages/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#style
[CLA]: https://cla.developers.google.com/
[Discord]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Chat.md
[linked to at least one issue that this PR fixes]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Tree-hygiene.md#overview
[pub versioning philosophy]: https://dart.dev/tools/pub/versioning
[exempt from version changes]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/contributing/README.md#version
[following repository CHANGELOG style]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/contributing/README.md#changelog-style
[exempt from CHANGELOG changes]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/contributing/README.md#changelog
[test-exempt]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Tree-hygiene.md#tests

Commit message:

Update PR template for clarity (#8777)
Attempt to make the PR checklist more clear about expectations:
- Retitle the checklist to make it explicit that it's for review, not landing.
- Make it explicit that the version, CHANGELOG, and test steps require some action, rather than just personally believing that a PR should be exempt.

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

*Replace this paragraph with a description of what this PR is changing or adding, and why. Consider including before/after screenshots.*

*List which issues are fixed by this PR. You must list at least one issue.*

## Pre-Review Checklist

- [ ] I read the [Contributor Guide] and followed the process outlined there for submitting PRs.
- [ ] I read the [Tree Hygiene] page, which explains my responsibilities.
- [ ] I read and followed the [relevant style guides] and ran the auto-formatter. (Unlike the flutter/flutter repo, the flutter/packages repo does use `dart format`.)
- [ ] I signed the [CLA].
- [ ] The title of the PR starts with the name of the package surrounded by square brackets, e.g. `[shared_preferences]`
- [ ] I [linked to at least one issue that this PR fixes] in the description above.
- [ ] I updated `pubspec.yaml` with an appropriate new version according to the [pub versioning philosophy], or I have commented below to indicate which [version change exemption] this PR falls under.
- [ ] I updated `CHANGELOG.md` to add a description of the change, [following repository CHANGELOG style], or I have commented below to indicate which [CHANGELOG exemption] this PR falls under.
- [ ] I updated/added any relevant documentation (doc comments with `///`).
- [ ] I added new tests to check the change I am making, or I have commented below to indicate which [test exemption] this PR falls under.
- [ ] All existing and new tests are passing.

If you need help, consider asking for advice on the #hackers-new channel on [Discord].

<!-- Links -->
[Contributor Guide]: https://github.com/flutter/packages/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
[Tree Hygiene]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Tree-hygiene.md
[relevant style guides]: https://github.com/flutter/packages/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#style
[CLA]: https://cla.developers.google.com/
[Discord]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Chat.md
[linked to at least one issue that this PR fixes]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Tree-hygiene.md#overview
[pub versioning philosophy]: https://dart.dev/tools/pub/versioning
[version change exemption]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/contributing/README.md#version
[following repository CHANGELOG style]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/contributing/README.md#changelog-style
[CHANGELOG exemption]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/ecosystem/contributing/README.md#changelog
[test exemption]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Tree-hygiene.md#tests
