packages/image_picker/image_picker_macos/README.md, before:

# image\_picker\_macos

A macOS implementation of [`image_picker`][1].

## Limitations

`ImageSource.camera` is not supported unless a `cameraDelegate` is set.

### pickImage()
The arguments `maxWidth`, `maxHeight`, and `imageQuality` are not currently supported.

### pickVideo()
The argument `maxDuration` is not currently supported.

## Usage

### Import the package

This package is [endorsed][2], which means you can simply use `file_selector`
normally. This package will be automatically included in your app when you do,
so you do not need to add it to your `pubspec.yaml`.

However, if you `import` this package to use any of its APIs directly, you
should add it to your `pubspec.yaml` as usual.

### Entitlements

This package is currently implemented using [`file_selector`][3], so you will
need to add a read-only file acces [entitlement][4]:
```xml
    <key>com.apple.security.files.user-selected.read-only</key>
    <true/>
```

[1]: https://pub.dev/packages/image_picker
[2]: https://flutter.dev/to/endorsed-federated-plugin
[3]: https://pub.dev/packages/file_selector
[4]: https://flutter.dev/to/macos-entitlements

Commit message:

[image_picker] Reference alternate macOS implementations (#8487)
Since we don't currently plan to fix
https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/125829 in our implementation, and there is now a community implementation that does, reference that in the README and provide a link to quickly locate alternate implementations.

Also fixes a copy-paste mistake that was referencing the wrong app-facing plugin in the instructions.

packages/image_picker/image_picker_macos/README.md, after:

# image\_picker\_macos

A macOS implementation of [`image_picker`][1].

## Limitations

`ImageSource.camera` is not supported unless a `cameraDelegate` is set.

### pickImage()

The arguments `maxWidth`, `maxHeight`, and `imageQuality` are not currently supported.

### pickVideo()

The argument `maxDuration` is not currently supported.

## Usage

### Import the package

This package is [endorsed][2], which means you can simply use `image_picker`
normally. This package will be automatically included in your app when you do,
so you do not need to add it to your `pubspec.yaml`.

However, if you `import` this package to use any of its APIs directly, you
should add it to your `pubspec.yaml` as usual.

### Entitlements

This package is currently implemented using [`file_selector`][3], so you will
need to add a read-only file acces [entitlement][4]:
```xml
    <key>com.apple.security.files.user-selected.read-only</key>
    <true/>
```

## Alternatives

If you would prefer an implementation that uses the dedicated photo picker UI
available in newer versions of macOS, which is more similar to the iOS
experience, you may want to consider using
[an alternate, unendorsed implementation built by the community][5].

[1]: https://pub.dev/packages/image_picker
[2]: https://flutter.dev/to/endorsed-federated-plugin
[3]: https://pub.dev/packages/file_selector
[4]: https://flutter.dev/to/macos-entitlements
[5]: https://pub.dev/packages?q=topic%3Aimage-picker+platform%3Amacos
